
Topic: 4. Challenges and opportunities for improvement for institutions and researchers
Background: Publicly shared data offers researchers new opportunities but the impact it will have on the reliability of research findings is uncertain. This systematic review is the first step of a larger project that aims to investigate the reliability of findings from open data by replicating studies on the UK Biobank. The systematic review aims to (1) assess the completeness of UK Biobank (UKB) study reporting, (2) identify articles that are suitable for replication, and (3) inform reporting guidelines for other articles using the UKB and similar resources. This abstract uses content from the review's protocol, which was preregistered on the Open Science Framework before screening began.

Methods: On 15 January 2019 we searched PubMed, EMBASE, Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC) and PsycINFO for full research articles that report analyses of UKB data. We excluded non-English articles, articles that pooled data from the UKB with other sources in all their analyses and any articles we could not retrieve a full-text for. The articles were classified as 'traditional epidemiology' 'mendelian randomisation' or 'other' based on their abstracts. We are about to start extracting data and assessing reporting quality of the 'traditional epidemiology' articles. We will extract generic information about the article (e.g. citation, authors, title, author countries, publication date) and assess reporting quality using the Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) Statement. Screening, classifications and data extraction were, or will be, done separately by two researchers with disagreements resolved with a third researcher. We have made some deviations from our preregistered protocol.

Results: The search yielded 754 full research articles. 564 fitted our eligibility criteria. Of these 178 were traditional epidemiology, 72 included mendelian randomisation analyses and 314 were 'other'. We anticipate exploratory analyses of STROBE item completion between different article characteristics (e.g. publication date) and classifications. There are no other planned analyses since we cannot anticipate how reporting quality i srelated to specific outcomes or differs between different types of studies. 

Conclusions: Awaiting results.
